#  Proposal
  
The shock one feels when being told suprising news can be overwhelming; life altering at 
times. However this shock is miniscule compared to the gigapascales of pressure samples 
are subjected to, caused by different ranges of shock waves that shooting lasers encourage. The investigation of how these shock waves affect samples use the fluctuation 
in pressure compared to density to form Hugoniot curves. Further, the effects of certain 
shock waves on different particles highlight the potential changes in structure, 
temperature, and viscosity.This is used to model phase transitions, Geophyics/Planetary 
Sciences, molecular dynamic calculations, and the denotation of explosives. 

Sometimes, it is not possible to get direct data from a sample. 
Certain limiting elements of a sample can prove to be frustratingly obstructive. Therfore 
"Impedance matching" uses pressure-particle velocity graphs and position-time graphs to 
find the pressure of an unknown sample through the shock velocity properties of a known 
material. This technique aids with shock mitigation strategies, determining the peak 
stress of explosives, and discovering vulnerabilities in detonation.

To get the data needed to create the previously mentioned graph and Hugoniot line, 
different technologies are utilized. The SOP (Streaked Practical Pyrometer) is used to 
track the amount of photons to determine the temperature of a dynamically compressed 
material; this complements the Visar technology in identifying shock breakout in a sample. 
Another set of technology that is used are different laser systems, which are able to 
stimulate the shock waves into the samples. When preparing the sample for this experiment, 
it is imperative that an antireflection coating is applied onto the surface to limit the 
photon back refelction at interface. Depending on the use of either Omega-EP or Omege-60 
laser system one or two laser pulses focus on a specified diameter spot. By tweaking the 
intensity of the laser, pressure in the MgO sample will increase. X-Rays are collimated 
through a Ta pinhole, subsequently specific detectors record their transmission geometry. 
The detectors store the x-ray energy which can be converted into units of luminescence 
that are photosimulated through a calibrated scanner. For the purpose of texture 
classification, forward diffraction simulations are critical. The textural information 
modulates the intensity of powder direction in the azimuthal direction. The variation of 
this intensity can be calculated along the azimuth for both the B1 and B2 phase. 

Tying this all together, shock pyhsics builds the foundation of this experiment. The 
purpose of this is to run through a simulation how a sample reacts to a shock wave, and 
creating a comprehensible graph from the details. This will be used to further determine 
and identify different elements of a sample that can be used to identify them on earth, or 
even on other planets. 
